Salvadorians our country is in jeopardy
communism threatens our freedom if we
don't act now tomorrow we will be slaves
let's fight
but without bloodshed or justice peace
and work remember that it's your civic
duty to participate actively and bravely
in the fight our country is in jeopardy
communism threatens our freedom
El Salvador about half the size of the
Netherlands almost 5 million people
they're small densely populated country
as one of the world's major coffee
producers it also produces cotton by
Central American standards it has quite
a lot of industry Central America is a
volcanic area but recently it has been
above all that political volcanoes that
have erupted last year at Nicaragua the
Somoza dictatorship was ousted in El
Salvador Guatemala and possibly Honduras
two things seem to be heading towards
the same kind of development as in
samosas Nicaragua in these countries too
the power is in the hands of a tiny
group of extremely wealthy people who
use every kind of violence to block
social progress the United States has
always considered Central America as its
own backyard after the disappearance of
its main overseer samosa the US is
afraid to lose the rest of the garden to
Washington seize Nicaragua as the first
fallen domino and it will do everything
to keep the Domino's El Salvador and
Guatemala from falling as well and
America's greatest fear is that after
Guatemala it would be Mexico's turn
America's southern neighbor that would
mean no access to Mexican oil so no
second nicaragua for washington not in
El Salvador not anywhere on October the
15th 1979 dictator Romero was removed
this coup made in Washington was to
block revolution
a real and thorough agricultural reform
which will bring about essential changes
so next to the Colonel's Gutierrez and
maja no three progressive politicians
join the junta among them Guillermo
owned go we are aware of the enormous
difficulties and the fact that our
enemies don't want democratization and
structural changes in this period of
Genesis which will give new life to our
society and especially to the masses the
enemies of progress proved stronger than
Unger had expected the hardliners within
the military soon took over reforms
failed to materialize one Massacre
followed another and Unga quit on
January the 2nd 1988 yes we know we're
an anti-democratic and authoritarian
system leads it leads to repression not
of the oligarchy and of rightist
elements but of the peoples
organizations minister after minister
resigned one of the ex ministers went a
step further and join the guerrillas by
joining the Liberation Front causes a
great deal of risk and it becomes now
that I'm forced to go underground
a revolutionary loves children but in
this country the children have no
childhood they die of malnutrition and
have to work for a living
a revolutionary loves peace but in this
country we are plunged in blood and pain
a revolutionary loves life but the
oligarchy and its repressive system
won't let us live that's why we take
arms we take arms and fight this war
which we will win from January the 22nd
1980 no fewer than 200,000 people
demonstrated against the junta which by
now consisted of only the military and
the Christian Democrats that crumbling
party to calm the co-responsibility for
the repression of this demonstration as
well the demonstrators were strewn with
poison from the air but that wasn't all
or team between January 1st and March 13
and 1980 we registered 689 persons who
were murdered by the security forces in
the United States try to create if the
confusion will give you they say the
extreme right he would and the extreme
left like the cause the slaughter in our
country but I say that it is caused by
the security forces and the military
because it will be supported by the
National Guard and the police expected
wretch our country and the blood
okay give us what has happened I was in
a shop drinking some lemonade are you a
student
no what can you tell us I was just
walking in the street where my aunt
lives and I went to drink some lemonade
and then I heard shots they grabbed me I
got scared and ran that's all what's
your name in the grass they arrested
many students
no they just searched houses
our country yes
communism no men and women let's go to
the army headquarters to tell them that
we back the army
laughy we hope and believe that God will
enlighten us so that you the people will
join our fight we will support you in
every action you'll decide on that's the
only way to show them that you are the
saviors of our country if those spies
keep murdering us we will take our
revenge
the upper classes are furious they are
afraid of the people's block if the rich
keep terrorizing us with sugar cotton
and coffee
we'll take them for a ride
if you look above and group alike even
amongst a group or didn't do your
youngsters go around at night writing
subversive slogans on the walls like
long live the revolution no not here
three cheers for the workers platform do
you want $2 do you want $2.50 do you
want 350 do you want 450 do you want 575
how much do you want comrades they said
no they won't accept they want to
negotiate before they return to work
these are their terms
I expect money but a few animals have
already died what good is money if my
animals die the cows must be milked if
the cows die there will be no more milk
if the enemy comes what will you do with
this Hacienda we will set fire to the
Hacienda and the sugar came all those
for raise your hands
only a few minutes later the rural
police called in by the owner end of the
rally the campaign for higher wages
ended in the morgue demands of this kind
were never popular with the leading
class in El Salvador
a handful of people the so-called 14
families have been the Masters in El
Salvador for years they got hold of the
largest and the best parts of the land
while the peasant population had to make
do with little or no land at all at the
turn of the century the 14 families set
the doors open wide for foreign
investment with the u.s. leading the way
El Salvador became a land of milk and
honey for foreign investors low wages
and in case of labor unrest repression
was free of charge there was the army
the National Guard the police and the
paramilitary to take care of that by
order of the 14 families they suppress
all social change Colonels or generals
were elected presidents if they lost
elections they won by fraud or Massacre
in January 1932 an uprising of hungry
peasants was smothered in blood 30,000
dead and that has been the way of doing
things ever since
the National Resistance Army asked the
people of El Salvador to join the armed
struggle that's the only way to bring
down this corrupt and decadent regime
the National Resistance Army summons you
to form a People's Army to take over
power El Salvador is small and the
military the police and spies are
everywhere that makes it very hard for
the governors to train quietly and then
there's the shortage of arms that is the
main reason for the attacks on arms
depots and army patrols and for the
kidnapping of businessman whose ransoms
served to pay for arms and the shortage
leads to home industry as well guerrilla
leaders do more than talk about ideology
and their high aims a gente Cray was
often thought that revolutionaries are
without human problem of course that is
not true
I'm one of the founders of the movement
whenever I take part in an action thing
I feel afraid it's only logical one
loves life doesn't one
down with Colonel maja no
keep your spirits up it's time to fight
the workers here are having a difficult
time there's a political and economic
crisis many factories have been closed
the capitalists don't want to admit the
workers rights to unemployment benefit
for example these textile works employed
400 workers up to now the government
hasn't been able to resolve the problem
they can't keep the machines going for
lack of raw materials moreover we have
our tax free zone that's one of the
strangleholds of North American
imperialism here you can see now the
workers are exploited enterprises in the
tax-free areas don't pay taxes with the
country's money they export only
technical expertise we teach the workers
were against the closed down we put up a
fierce battle against the proprietors
who wanted to close the place they steal
the bread from our children it's the
case in many factories
the disgraceful circumstances of the
four were constantly condemned by
Archbishop Romero but he didn't stop at
condemnations he spoke about the causes
to A&R Valencia in our form of
institutionalized violence provokes the
fury of our people there's the violence
from the right which wants to retain its
privileges by oppression with you but
the reaction of the oppressed is called
the violence of the lab this leftist
violence is provoked by the right
therefore the right is guilty the
government is influenced by the Imperial
the Yankee influence is obvious they
completely ignore the platform of the
people's organization which they call
leftist revolutionary yes it was for
this kind of statement that Monsignor
Romero was killed
the day of the funeral started as a
dignified massive demonstration of
occurrence at the murder
so your romance as you know
I'm going to give you some biographical
facts on Bishop Oscar Romero 'he's life
the demonstrators silently come to the
square in front of the cathedral the
center of the town looks as if it is no
longer in the hands of the regime but of
the people
before the assembled press of the world
the funeral degenerates into a new
massacre the foreign bishops present
testified that the massacre was started
by the military
you know very well that there were no
security people in that area and in the
entire town we kept them in the barracks
all day that has been checked repeatedly
in order to prevent bloodshed I believe
that the leftists are aware being we to
realize their dream of insurrection our
revolution will be completely peaceful
they try to provoke disturbances to
blame it on the government and the army
this is the people this is the suffering
people the people full of desperate fear
wanting to flee these are the facts
the exploding bombs nowhere do we see a
member of the security forces the
government of El Salvador considered
Bishop Romero to be an obstacle he told
the people what was happening in this
country
reforms drenched in blood from which the
organized sectors were excluded at the
white especially the peasants in the
workers totally worthless reforms at
least for the masses his attitude was an
obstacle to the oligarchy that wanted to
transfer its money into industry as well
as to foreign powers who are against our
self-determination that mean
Bendu look at Ipanema this is the last
case that Bishop Romero treated
everything person is the case a goose
team Sanchez he was arrested on the 16th
of February Misha primero saw how the
rural police and tortured him I was on
my way to the country to the coop it's
the on the way I met two friends we went
long past Hacienda which had been taken
over the government has put up soldiers
in the haciendas so we went along and
when we have passed the Hacienda and the
soldiers I suggested to go and drink
some water and the soldiers when we left
the store they made a stop we stopped
and they searched I had only my papers
in my pocket but one of the others had a
small pistol in his pocket so the
soldiers said we were guerrillas and
they blindfolded us after we were tied
up we were brought to the Hacienda in
the house the end of they kicked in hit
us from there they took us to the
barracks as I can take a look at
there they threw us in a sort of a room
it wasn't a cell but a kind of cellar
they just threw us in there
the three of us we were tortured twice
today after six days they were fed up as
we didn't talk so the rural police took
us away secretly at midnight in a truck
they threw us out in the middle of a
deserted Road and started to trample us
wanting to make it look like a car had
run over us we were sitting there
kneeling and with her hands tied up they
were going to kill me first
they took my handcuffs off pointed a
pistol here and they took the blindfold
off and then they shot I screamed and
fell as if I were dead the other two
tried to run away and were killed
I heard all those shots and they shot
them in the face with their g3s
and then they ran over their head next
they lifted me by the hair in the ground
I hung there with my face then they
threw me down again and they bounced me
up and down to see if I was still alive
I breathe very carefully didn't make a
sound and they got me into the truck and
drove toward they accelerated the second
I'm it brushed my hand wide-leg and the
third time it brushed my head I hid my
face like this the truck grazed my
forehead and then they said that I was
finished off everything I said the two
corpses they said they would dump near
la libertad and then come back for me
as soon as they'd gone with the two
corpses I got up and ran away this is
ordinary because many people are killed
eat it this way the security people and
the military say that the rebels kill
them this story must be told this way
peasants workers students teachers and
intellectuals disappear all those
progressive forces in which support the
struggle of our people
they must have stabbed him one of his
mowers had a gold cap on which side on
the left
no vocal idiom elemental we can tell the
age of a person when we see is teeth
they got them out of jail in order to
kill them in some lonely place that's
how the new hunter works they don't give
us our children back we only hope that
they're still alive but we don't know
where they are more than 300 mothers are
looking for their son I went to the
National Guard's into the rural police
they sent me to the municipal police and
they said that there are no political
prisoners they lie we comply with the
law but in a liberal way in agreement
with human rights when dealing with
extremist groups we want to be strict
and firm not repressive refugees in a
camp in the city know from their own
experience what this firm but just
behavior of the military stands for they
are the survivors of the so-called land
reforms the first we talk to is a ten
year old girl her mother was a member of
the peasants trade union till the
military came for a visit
they took them through the house of my
father's sister there they were shot and
killed the guard said that they had to
be killed those who were dead were
stabbed their legs were stabbed and cut
to pieces they cut their hands off and
stabbed their heads my mother was hit by
a bullet
my father's sister was shot and stabbed
in the head there have been many
invasions the last two and a half years
it's so bad now that we had to leave
raids by Guardsmen and the paramilitary
at first they just killed the people on
the streets but lately they enter the
houses and kill the women if we get into
a bus they stop the bus and kill the
people the people who want to go back to
their homes they do that because we have
organized ourselves in order to get
higher wages in our area they kill women
children and old people and they set
fire to their houses they select their
victims no they just kill anybody are
you a member of a farmers union to come
to see me yes because how do they treat
this organization barbarously this
agricultural reform stinks it's a sham
do you think that to the peasants don't
profit from the agricultural work for
those who don't want to cooperate or
kill the only ones who profit by it are
those people of Orden who kill us the
activities of the conventional
opposition proved to be an invitation to
murder
that is why in the 70s a
non-conventional opposition took the
floor people who wouldn't let the regime
set the rules the people's organizations
movements of the poor peasants labourers
students teachers and inhabitants of the
shanty town started to cooperate each
organisation had its own guerrillas
which attacked the army the police the
14 families and the foreign
entrepreneurs
the five main people's organizations and
their good owners are joining forces now
they have formed a coordinating body
which has started a coalition with the
Social Democrats and the progressive
wing of the Christian Democrats the
Revolutionary Democratic Front the very
first items of the platform of that
front are an end to terror the
expropriation of the holdings of the 14
families an honest distribution of the
land and for the first time in the
history of El Salvador a real democracy
but all that is still to be accomplished
in El Salvador
see nvm year college the 19th of this
month at nine o'clock in the morning
unknown plainclothesman arrived the
neighbors can testify that they were
armed and that they dragged him out of
the house he was blindfolded and they
tied him up the day before at his work
there had been a strike they threatened
to shoot my little girl - until the
final victory one never forgets the
color of blood the Dead will be avenged
who will avenge them the people how by
fighting
in your punk-ass
Oh fine yet
know that he only dies when you give up
for those who die in combat live on in
every comrade onwards onwards the fight
goes on government and bosses brace
yourself
here comes the working class with all
its battalions